# Rails-5-boilerplate

Dockerized development environment for a rails 5.1.0 app which makes use of Devise, Pundit, Rspec, Postgres and Redis. This boilerplate is configured with a seed user, 3 roles which can be easily updated. It also boasts a sample controller and views utilising bootstrap styles for login and user creation.

## Installation

__Environment__

- Docker version 17.06.1-ce, build 874a737	

__System Dependencies__ 

- Rails 5.1.0
- Ruby 2.4.1

__Gems__

- devise
- devise_invitable
- pundit
- bootstrap-sass
- bootstrap_form
- pg
	
Make sure you have Docker installed and running correctly https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/

__Clone this Repo__

> $ git clone https://github.com/selenasmall/rails-5-boilerplate.git

__Generate a secret key__

Rails has a built-in rake task to do this https://www.jamesbadger.ca/2012/12/18/generate-new-secret-token/

> $ rake secret

__Create a development.env file__

This is similar to the example.env you already have and belongs in the app root. This file has been added to the .gitingore because these values are sensitive - make sure this file does NOT get added to your repo.
```
#
# Environment config
#
# WEB_IMAGE_URL=boilerplate_web:latest
APP_IMAGE_URL=boilerplate_app:latest

#
# Rails App config
#
RAILS_ENV=development
# Necessary for ecs containers to send logs to CloudWatch
# RAILS_LOG_TO_STDOUT=true
# RAILS_MAX_THREADS=5
SECRET_KEY_BASE=
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://postgres:notasecret@postgres:5432/boilerplate?pool=5
REDIS_URL=redis://redis:6379/9
CABLE_REDIS_URL=redis://redis:6379/1

#
# Action Mailer config
#
MAILER_OPTIONS_FROM=selenawiththetattoo@gmail.com
MAILER_URL_HOST=192.168.99.100:3000
MAILER_URL_PROTOCOL=http
MAILER_DELIVERY_METHOD=sendmail

# Replace `localhost` with your Docker Machine IP address:
# ACTION_MAILER_HOST=192.168.99.100:3000
# ACTION_CABLE_FRONTEND_URL=ws://192.168.99.100:28080
# ACTION_CABLE_ALLOWED_REQUEST_ORIGINS=http:\/\/192.168.99.100*
```

__From the root of the app build the docker image and run your app__

> $ docker-compose up app

***

## Usage

### Run the app

Run the program from the app root

> $ docker-compose up app

In your terminal, you should see your containers building

```
Starting rails5boilerplate_postgres_data_1 ...
Starting rails5boilerplate_bundle_1 ...
Starting rails5boilerplate_postgres_data_1
Starting rails5boilerplate_bundle_1
Starting rails5boilerplate_redis_data_1 ...
Starting rails5boilerplate_redis_data_1 ... done
Starting rails5boilerplate_bundle_1 ... done
rails5boilerplate_postgres_1 is up-to-date
Starting rails5boilerplate_app_1 ...
Starting rails5boilerplate_app_1 ... done
Attaching to rails5boilerplate_app_1
```

And when the build is complete, you will see that the app is running at localhost:3000

```
app_1            | The Gemfile's dependencies are satisfied
app_1            | Puma starting in single mode...
app_1            | * Version 3.10.0 (ruby 2.4.1-p111), codename: Russell's Teapot
app_1            | * Min threads: 5, max threads: 5
app_1            | * Environment: development
app_1            | * Listening on tcp://0.0.0.0:3000
app_1            | Use Ctrl-C to stop
```

You can check this in the browser by visiting

> http://localhost:3000

***

### Customization

__Seed user__

Migration 'create_seed_user' initialises credentials for seed admin user. If you want to change this, you will simply need to rebuild your docker container

> $ docker-compose app build
>
> $ docker-compose up app

<br>

__Roles and Privelleges__

User model defines user roles as enums and can be edited by updat the roles on line 7

```
enum role: [:admin, :manager, :user]
```

ApplicationController requires an authenticated user to view the app - to change this, simply remove

```
before_action :authenticate_user!
```

Application policy generated by Pundit determines for user privelleges based on their roles. This can be edited by following Pundit's documentation at https://github.com/elabs/pundit

<br>

__User Management__

User Management Capabilities are linked to the User Controller.

- New users can only be created by Admin (as specified in the UserPolicy) and Invited to join the aplication with Devise 'invitable' gem.

Devise_invitable https://github.com/scambra/devise_invitable allows new users to join the applicaiton upon invitation sent by email. Invitation emails are formated in 

- views/users/invitations
- views/users/mailer

Devise registerable allows users to sign up to the applicaiton. The sign up link can be added/ removed from your home page at 

- app/views/devise/shared/_links 

Update the mailer_sender for devise_invitable in initializer/devise.rb

```
config.mailer_sender = 'example@test.com'
```

<br>

__Layouts__

* Routes point to home/index as default home page

* Application.html.erb controls overall layout for application, include nav bar styled by bootstrap

* Present styles can be easily modified in the stylesheets directory. I have tried to use as few classes as possible and ensured that all styles are also responsively designed.

<br>

__Icomoon Icons__

_Optional_

I have configured the Asset Pipeline which Rails depends on for compiling assets to allow the additionl of external fonts like the ones found at http://icomoon.com 

1. After choosing the icons you want to include in your application at icomoon.com, you'll download and unzip the file. 

2. Copy the 'fonts' folder across to your app/assets/ directory.

3. Ensure you have the config variables set to compile your font assets in config/initializers/assests.rb
	- Rails.application.config.assets.paths << Rails.root.join("app", "assets", "fonts")

4. Add the @font-face styles supplied in your download to a seperate style file assets/stylesheets/icomoon.scss, remembering to inlcue that in application.scss. The url paths will need to be adjusted for these icons to work. Simply remove the 'fonts/' at the begining of each url. Ie:
	- url('fonts/icomoon.svg?jirsj0#icomoon') format('svg');
	
    Becomes:
	- url('icomoon.svg?jirsj0#icomoon') format('svg');

5. See how to display your newly added icons in views/layouts/application.html.erb

***

## Testing

__Coming soon!!__

- TDD
- BDD

***

## Deployment

__Coming soon!!__

- Deployment config
- Production environment settings
- Capistrano, RDS & EC2/
- JRuby & Lambda
- Heroku

***
